Hey, everybody. Hey, Michael. Good to see you again.
Hey.
Well, it's exciting news, as always, this week.
And I'm glad I'm inside because it's kind of rainy outside.
We have a Category 5 atmospheric river. That's not good.
Yeah, we're up an atmospheric river without a paddle.
We are.
All right. Let's get started.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 461, recorded December 9th, 2025.
And I am Brian Okken.
And I am Michael Kennedy.
And this episode is sponsored by yours truly and Michael.
So both of us.
Talk Python training.
Always some great stuff.
I just finished the AI, the recent AI agent course.
Oh, you did?
Yeah.
Oh, thank you.
Yeah, awesome.
Really enjoyed it.
Some great content there.
But there's plenty of other stuff to do.
There's even a pytest course there.
But if you'd like a really complete pytest course, head on over to pythontest.com.
There's the complete course there.
Thanks to Patreon supporters.
also there's a new book out from Michael
and a book that I'm working on
so lots of ways you can support us
and if you don't
if you just want to support us by sending us topics
we'd like that too
you can connect with us
there's a contact form on the website
on pythonbice.fm
or you can reach us on Bluesky or Mastodon
and if you'd like to
if you're listening
we love you
But we also would like you to check out our video stuff every once in a while.
Head on over to pythonbytes.fm/live, and you can be part of the audience or just watch it afterwards.
And finally, please subscribe to our newsletter.
Or essentially, it's occasionally we send out little news bits, but mostly it's the show notes from the show.
So we send out, after we get it all done, we send out a newsletter that has all the links.
so you don't have to take notes while you're listening.
Now, for our first topic, Michael.
Our first topic is going to be, let's switch.
Our first topic is going to be a tour of peps,
a brand new  PEP in a  PEP that we spent a fair amount of time talking about.
The first one is  PEP 798, unpacking in comprehensions.
So this one is a little bit funky.
It's currently in draft stage targeting Python 3.15.
It's pretty minor, but I think it brings some consistency to it.
So I linked to the conversation here.
And the idea is right now if I have a function that takes an arbitrary number of positional keywords,
you would say star args, right?
Star args, star kwargs is like a pretty common theme that we see.
So if I had something that said star args,
and I wanted to push a tuple of values as those positional parameters,
I would say star tuple in the function call.
Kind of like you say star star for a dictionary to say keyword arguments, right?
So the idea here is that that works for function calls,
but it doesn't work for comprehensions,
less comprehensions, set comprehensions, and so on,
if you have an iterable.
Right now what we have, and this is super confusing to me,
I always get the order wrong,
or at least I'm always uncertain of the order,
is I can say basically x for x in y,
y for y in thing if I've got a set of lists or intervals and I want to turn them into
like one big list as a comprehension you can basically do like a double comprehension
in one thing and I'm always like which one is the collection and which one is the item you know
so this kind of solves that it says you can just say in the comparison you say star iterable for
or iterable in some list of iterables.
And it makes it real simple.
Right?
So you can do that for--
let's see, I pulled up official pep.
You can do it for list comprehensions, set
comprehensions, dictionary comprehensions.
If you have an iterable of dictionaries,
you can create a dictionary comprehension.
And you can do it for generators.
if your generator generates iterables.
Does that make sense?
Yeah.
So that's pretty much it.
What do you think?
That's cool.
So that's not something you do now?
This is a proposal?
Is that right?
Yes, this is a draft for 315.
Okay.
And just a shout-out for a little bit of credit.
This is Adam Hartz and Eric Demain for the people proposing it.
The sponsor is Yale Jalastra.
Sorry if I messed that up.
I gave you my best shot, folks.
So anyway, that's my main topic here for this first one
is this unpacking in comprehensions.
We've had unpacking in other places into variables.
We've had unpacking into function calls.
We have not had them in comprehensions.
And honestly, this double comprehension,
like double-layered comprehension thing
has always been complicated.
And so I'm here for it.
I mean, it does add another thing to language,
and everything you add to a language just makes it more complicated.
But in this case, I think it's well worth it.
Now, one other...
Go ahead.
Oh, I just wanted to say, speaking of the unpacking,
use the star or asterisk,
but one of my favorite names for that character is Splat.
Splat.
Let's call them splatted comprehensions.
Here, hold on.
I'll just edit this, and we'll fix this real quick.
I'm going to change the, you know what?
My screen is too small.
I was going to edit the text, right?
OK, so that's all good.
Now, the next one is just a really quick follow-up on a  PEP as well
before we move off of Focus on Me.
Remember how excited you were and I was about explicit lazy imports,
as in lazy dot, dot, dot?
Are they going to take it out?
No. Dear PEP 810 authors, Barry Warsaw writes,
this steering council is happy, happy to unanimously accept PEP 810 explicit lazy imports.
Congratulations. You now have a job to implement.
Yeah. The same is true for all the other alternative keywords we come up with.
So lazy it is. I know. That's anyway, a little bit of background on some of the thinking the steering council put out there.
But yeah, unanimously and happy.
Yay.
Good.
Yeah, that's pretty good.
So happy to see that.
And by the way, just a little shout out for the live stream folks.
I'm going to have Barry Warsaw and a bunch of other folks on to do a year in review.
Three hours, two hours and 40 minutes from now on Talk Python.
So that's going to be fun.
We'll hear from Barry over there, but probably not about the pep.
All right, over to you, Brian.
uh what am i talking about i'm going to talk about um uh another so another new release
or an upcoming release pandas 3.0 so the pandas 3.0.0 so 300 there's a release candidate zero
that's been out since what sometime last week um but there's uh and then apparently there's going
to be an official 3.0 released in a few weeks but that was a week ago so maybe a couple weeks from
now? Not sure. So what do we got in here? I'm pretty excited about this, actually. We've got
what's new. There's a dedicated string data type by default. And this is just kind of great. So
if normally in things that with strings in them, they would show up as objects, but clearly they're
strings. So there's a new string type. And it does change things a bit. If you have any missing
things, it'll be an
N-A-N
sentinel to say that there's nothing there.
What's great about this is
if this, once you have
this str type, D-type
or str D-type,
you can only put strings or
N-A-Ns in it. There's nothing else
allowed.
Nothing weird shows up.
It's not just a generic object.
There's a lot of other implications around
this.
The str can only hold strings
and the Sentinel, of course.
The missing values are Sentinel inferred by default for string data.
Anyway, check out the PEP 14 to get a little more information.
There is other implications around this,
but I think it's a really good thing.
Copy on write also is kind of a really exciting thing
that hopefully nobody will really notice.
But the idea is really anything that results in an indexing operation
will return essentially a copy of things.
So you don't, there's not, or not a copy, it'll be a reference.
And it only makes a copy of actually modify something.
So Pandas will keep track of whether or not you've changed it.
And if you haven't changed it, it's just a copy of the data there.
This should save a lot of time and space.
I think that's going to save a ton, especially memory.
Because if I remember correctly,
I'm not a pandas expert by any stretch of the imagination,
but when you call operations like filter operations
or other transform operations, it doesn't in-place modify.
It returns a new data frame.
Like if I add a column to a data frame with the operation,
I get an entire copy of that data frame plus the column,
one of the new columns.
And if you've got 5 million rows loaded and you call those 5 or 10 times, you're all of a sudden, it's piling up fast.
Yeah, and it says the main goal is to change the user API to be more consistent and predictable.
And I think this is right.
Because we're doing matrix operations and stuff.
And we'd really like it to be kind of like math, where you don't really care about the size or timing implications.
You're just, this is what I want to do.
And having that be more consistent and hidden behind the scenes.
I think it's going to be great.
It's going to make this a lot easier to learn.
They're cleaning up a lot of the API and stuff.
It's really cool.
We had covered this in one of the other episodes that was coming.
PD call syntax can now be used in data frame assign and location.
And this idea is that basically you could just say,
I want to assign a new column with the addition of two other columns or something,
or some operation.
And it just does it right there.
Like instead of having to do a Lambda expression inside,
you can just do the expression.
It's really kind of a great syntax.
We've got a copy of the syntax in the show notes,
but that's pretty great.
Some changes to deprecation policy,
probably because of some of these changes that, you know,
they're doing a three-stage deprecation thing.
But I think this is good.
I think that basically open source projects are being used more.
The ones that have to think about this, how to keep track, keep it fun to maintain, but also moving with the times.
And I think these are good calls.
A bunch of other enhancements as well, so check those out.
But I think this is a really good direction.
I can't wait to see 3.0 pandas come out.
This will be great.
Yeah, that's pretty exciting.
That's a pretty major change.
All right.
What's up next?
This episode has typos in it, Brian.
Oh, no.
I'll try to fix it.
I know.
Well, remember I spoke about code spell, all one word, code spell,
and it was a misspelling finder, not a spell checker.
The spell checker looks for words that it knows are good
and says, I don't know that word.
That must be misspelled.
In programming, obviously, there's all these symbols
and all sorts of stuff.
One of the things that drives me crazy is when my editor suggests that a library that I'm importing is misspelled,
but it's the library's name correctly.
I'm like, hmm, well, I can't write it any other way.
This is the only way it works.
I'm sorry, spellchecker, but do I really got to go through and tell you that this is the name of the library I'm using?
Yes, apparently I do.
So this like code spell, this thing called typos, also looks for known misspellings like ADN for a common misspelling of AND and so on.
So why are we back?
Well, Sky Cosco wrote and said, code spell is cool, but you should check out typos.
So typos, I believe it is written in Rust.
Yes, 99.9%.
That's three nines Rust.
Pretty good.
and 0.0% Python, but it's still mentioned.
So it must be less than 1 tenth of 1%.
But it's a little more full-featured for people that like this.
So, for example, it has a GitHub action
that you could just put into all of your PRs.
That's kind of cool, if you want.
It's like a gated thing for PRs and commits and so on.
But the best thing about it, I guess two things.
One is it uses the concrete syntax tree
rather than actually just searching text.
So what it can do is it can find partial bits of words that are misspelled.
Maybe this is actually not related to that, but it does find partial misspellings.
So, for example, if you write connecton string instead of connection string with snake casing,
whatever, it says, hey, guess what?
The word connection and connection underscore string without the I is a misspell.
Maybe you should change Connectton to Connectshun or Connectdoor or whatever.
And it gives you a nice little UI for that.
So that's one.
I really like that.
Actually, that's super cool that it can detect misspellings within snake case words.
Yeah, yeah.
This is a big improvement.
And PyCharm does this as well, by the way, which is really nice.
But I believe PyCharm is a spell checker, not a misspelling finder or whatever.
I'm pretty sure.
Anyway, this is really nice that it does this.
The other thing that's super cool, and this is why Sky wrote to us,
is it actually has a VS Code in Friends extension in Language Server.
So what you can do is basically install this as an extension in VS Code,
or Cursor, or Google Antigravity, or, you know, WinServ.
You name all the others, right?
because it's also in the open VSX registry.
So you can install that there.
And then just as you're writing code,
you get little squigglies and you get alt enter actions to fix it.
So you don't even have to run the client or the GitHub thing and so on,
which the code spell has no editor integration.
So it's really the fact that this is like that, a little better,
runs in editors.
That's cool.
Yeah.
I actually don't remember the last time I actually ran a spell checker independently.
I just rely on those in-editor things.
So do I.
So, yeah, it's also got the LSP for other things, I guess.
Yeah, that means you can even use it in NeoVim or Vim or Zed or whatever, right?
So it's not just even the extensions.
It's actually because the LSP, it even goes farther than that.
Cool.
Yeah, anyway.
thank you sky for the follow-up and good suggestion all right i uh apparently i'm missing um missing
having a testing podcast so i've got uh two topics that i'd like to talk about a couple of testing
topics um first one came in it's called slow la fi came in from brian skin so thank you uh brian for
for sending in this idea so here's an interesting idea so this is a this is a a project
to simulate overloaded slow resource constrained machines so basically to make your tests flakier
or something nice flaky tests uh but the that but the idea around it is a test is working fine
in locally, but you throw it up in CI and it fails for some reason.
So it might be because you've got a CI image that is more constrained.
So this allows you to do things like muck with how much memory is around
and how many CPUs are available and stuff.
It does require you to run it on a Linux machine with Cgroups V2 around
because that's how it throttles the CPU and memory and stuff.
But it shouldn't be hard to come by, hopefully.
And yeah, then you can check to muck with things to find out,
to try to simulate locally a failure that's happening in CI.
So really nice there.
The other topic I'd like to talk about testing-related is this comes from Ned Batchelder.
Actually, it's his article.
why your mock breaks later.
And actually, I think it should be stronger than this.
Basically, the don'ts and do's of mocking.
And the gist of it is overly aggressive mocks
can work fine at first, but then break later.
Recently, a lot of people were doing all this pop down.
Let's say you're reading a file
and you want to when the file gets opened,
you don't really actually want to muck with the file.
You want to be able to mock that or patch it.
So one of the things that some people do
is to patch the open function.
And one of the ways people do it
is patching built-ins open.
This is not how you want to do it.
This is the don't do this version.
And I'll just zoom in a bit.
Don't do the built-ins open
because it patches everything.
And it was causing problems in coverage
because coverage also wants to open something.
And you're basically patching open
for everything in your program,
including coverage when it's running on top of it.
So you don't want to do that.
You only want to patch where you are.
So the proper way is wherever,
like if you're in a,
the example is you've got a user
file you want to patch right there in myproduct.user the dot following of where right exactly where
it is um there's that's the gist of it is don't uh don't mock the thing you're importing
after you've imported it mock it there and uh it's a good good lesson i didn't think that this
I thought that was fairly widely known,
so I didn't realize it was an issue.
He went ahead and did a search for Python in GitHub.
You can search for built-ins open with tests in there
and patches and stuff, either patches or whatever,
monkey patching or patching or mock patching.
found 44,000 files that were doing the bad one within GitHub.
So this is all naughty.
I don't know what kind of GitHub badge you get for 44,000 PRs getting accepted,
but Ned's got himself a real opportunity here to get a 1% total badge.
I don't think he wants to fix them all, but yeah.
No, that's an interesting way, an interesting metric.
Yeah, and actually at the end of the article,
So I'd like to point out, he talks about some mocking practices.
Make sure you use autospec equals true to make sure that your mocks strictly behave like the original.
I wholeheartedly agree with that.
Make assertions about how your mock is called.
Actually, the rest of this is stuff that I actually want to go check out
because I do remember this functional core imperative shell talk
and some of these other things, dependency injection.
I'm not sure if I agree with all of Ned's stuff, but that's all right.
Some other interesting things to read about with mocking.
I imagine he knows more than I do because I don't usually mock.
I don't mock very much.
It's not very nice to do, honestly.
It's not very nice.
To mock people.
Yeah, but sometimes it's necessary.
And sometimes it's necessary.
You know what is nice, though?
Extras.
Extras, yeah.
Yeah, I do have extras.
Should I go ahead and run through them?
All right.
So I've already got my stuff up.
Let's go.
This is a great,
there was a great mini documentary of FastAPI,
the rise and fall,
rise and rise,
not the rise and fall,
the rise and rise of FastAPI with Sebastian Ramirez.
And it's like an eight minute video.
It's a really fun video of him talking about it.
He's such a genuine,
nice dude also.
Yeah.
Yeah, he really is.
I am still writing Lean TDD, the e-book in progress.
We go to the table of content.
Oh, I made a couple of changes.
So somebody requested that not only do I,
when I release a new chapter to release the full thing,
but also the latest one.
And that way people can just like,
just throw the latest one on their Kindle
and just have one chapter.
Or they can either replace the whole thing
or if they've taken notes on other stuff to just do the updates, the new chapters.
So I'm going to do that now, or at least I've started.
We'll see. It's a little extra work, but that's all right.
I got the building on Lean done, and it was long enough to talk about Lean, I think,
that it made sense to split it.
And I was going to do finding waste in test-driven development as part of that chapter,
but I'm going to make it its own chapter now.
So I'm going to do that.
I wanted to do a sneak peek.
Oh, never mind.
Of the table of contents in progress so far.
So I'm making some good progress.
I've got an outline for where I'm going in the future.
Where are we now?
We're going to do Finding Waste and TDD next year.
So it's not going to be a huge book.
I'm guessing.
So right now we're up to, what, 30 pages as a PDF.
I'm guessing it will be under 100 pages when I'm done.
So it's not a huge book.
but it's also not expensive.
It's $10.
At least my experience is PDFs usually have more content per page
than e-books, at least if you ask Amazon how many pages is it.
Yeah, and even like way more.
Yeah, it's more content per page for e-book,
but also per print book.
So print book isn't usually an 8.5 by 13 page.
So yeah.
Last one, my extra Python 314.2.
was released December 5th.
We haven't had 3.14
around for that long, but
people are upgrading, which is great.
And they're not afraid to upgrade, but they're
finding a few things. So there were a few,
a handful of fixes. There were
some exceptions in multiprocessing.
I didn't notice those, but
some people noticed them.
Data classes without inits were throwing
exceptions. Anyway, they fixed
some critical things in 3.14,
and I appreciate the core
team being on top of it. So that's great. Yeah. Awesome. That one flew under my radar. Somehow
I didn't notice it. So very exciting. It's time to upgrade some stuff. All right. Do you have any
extras? Well, I do. I have some repeat extras in a sense in that you and I both pulled this
Sebastian Ramirez one out and I don't really have much more to say other than I want to say for sure
this is a super nice documentary. It's super highly produced. It's done by Colt Repo. What a bad name.
The comments suggest like, what is this, like a weird cult or something?
A much better channel name would be Repo Culture or Culture Repository or Repository Culture.
It's something about like, it covers open source basically, right?
But cult repo is weird.
Anyway, it's the same group that did the one hour Python documentary that's really highly produced.
So that's all I want to say about that.
And with regard to the book, right?
For the Talk Python in production book,
I actually started keeping a changelog.
I think we talked to, I think even you brought this up.
Keep a changelog.
Don't let your friends dump Git logs into changelogs.
Keep your changelog.
And so I'm keeping this for people who are like,
what has changed about the book?
Because at least, well, on Amazon,
Amazon says they will release new versions as they feel like it
if I upload a new EPUB.
Really?
Yeah.
but it doesn't say the time frame of it.
And
those should automatically show on people's devices
as updates. And then
the Gumroad version, if you buy it directly from me,
obviously I push up
new versions and have like
numbers. And my book has a version number
in it.
Which is kind of fun. Anyway, so I'm keeping
a changelog following the keep a changelog
style so people can see like
do I care?
Do I care about the change? Do I need to go back?
Whatever.
so yeah and i also want to tell people that um it's the it used to be like you know several years
ago when i did a my first ebook um it was a little little sketchier to to figure out how to get a
book onto your kindle without um like without going through amazon and it's way easier now um if you
just like if you grab a book like an e-book for me or from michael you can just email it to yourself
you can set up a an email address that you just email it to yourself and it just shows up on your
kindle yeah you your kindle gets an email so mine mine's something with the word paper right in it
i don't remember exactly what it is but yeah and it's it's totally um you figure it out once and
and i've got um yeah it's not bad it's not easy it's not easy it is very easy it's not hard so
yeah yeah and uh road time follow-up sky as in the same sky that recommended
um typos it looks like 3 14 2 came out just three days after 3 14 1 okay very interesting
all right a couple more extras for me i was on vanishing gradients so that i told you that's
gonna be there that's out that was a very fun episode i a fun chat with hugo bone anderson
and jango 6 is now officially released last week i talked about what was coming
but like the day after we did that it's now actually out right so um if you're waiting on
that jingo six is out see what it holds for you now brian i think i have a pretty fun pretty fun
joke this is a little more elaborate than just like a dad joke or something are you ready yeah
so one of the there's like these joke programming languages that actually compile
and stuff. And one that I really love is lolcats, lolcats, all one word. So good. So good. Actually
has multiple implementations of it and it's, it's good. So, but we don't live in the time of lolcats
anymore. That was like an early meme of the internet. So we now live in a hyper hyped,
crazy headline overdone age as you know so i present to you the tabloid language oh my god
are you ready oh my god here we go it's a minimal programming language inspired by clickbait
headlines shocking new programming language bewilders programmers at google and facebook
get up new headline tutorial so let's look at an example here discover how to fibonacci this is
import basically discover how to no um this is the function actually discover how to fibonacci with
a b n rumor this is like a try or something rumor has it what if n smaller than one shocking
development b lies rumor has it you won't want to miss b shocking development fibonacci of b a plus b
and minus one end of story end of story expert claims limit to be 10.
you won't want to miss first 10 fibonacci numbers you won't want to miss apparently it's print
and then i don't know what this last one is experts claim nothing to be fibonacci of
one zero one limit i think that's like a test or an assert please subscribe like no output
I'm going to run it. Hold on. Hold on. Run this. Oh my God. It runs.
What about factorial? You won't want to miss this. Hello world. Discover how to factorial with N.
Rumor has it. What if N is actually zero? Shocking development one. Lies. Shocking development N.
So good. Oh no. Lies is the else. Yeah. Lies is the else. Yeah. Lies. Because there's a,
There's an assertion.
It goes, lies.
But I'm like, no, not the assertion.
It's really good, actually.
And notice it runs.
It runs.
It runs in the browser.
What is this built on?
I don't know.
I'm not sure if it's WebAssembly or if it's just JavaScript implementation.
It's all JavaScript.
This is awesome.
It's so good, isn't it?
Yeah.
I think we need a...
But it used to be that this would be difficult,
but we just have to have the spec for this.
and we could get like Claude or something to translate larger programs to tablet.
I might rewrite Python Bytes, the website in it.
I think lies, exclamation mark.
It requires an exclamation mark for lies.
Oh, by the way, people were just listening.
This is all the keywords.
The entire language is all caps.
So like lies, of course.
Anyway, I think it's pretty excellent.
This is old.
I didn't realize.
I just ran across it.
But it's four years old.
Anyway, well done.
Well done, whoever made this.
This is amazing.
This is awesome.
Yeah.
Cowboy.
Oh, yeah.
Also, Kiva in the audience points out that every time you print something, it also ends in an exclamation mark, even if the text itself doesn't have an exclamation mark.
Oh, yeah, obviously.
I mean, like, of course.
It has to.
lies this is the end of the show lies we have more no this is really good
it's good
so also uh for people uh uh watching the video i you'll notice a little less junk in my office
uh i'm starting to clean up after thanksgiving and we'll get there yeah anyway uh great episode
as always, Michael, thank you. Thank you, everybody
for listening, and we'll see you all
next week. What if actually
this was the end? No. See you later.
Lies!